# Countdown Game

## Description
Countdown is a popular British game show involving word and number tasks.<br>
*Fun fact:* Countdown is one of the longest-running game shows in the world. Its first episode aired on the 2nd of November, 1982!<br>

## How to play
*NOTE: These rules have been altered to my liking.*<br><br>
There are two types of rounds.<br>
The first type of round is the Letters round.<br>
Letters round:<br><br>- The round's current player will be choosing between two letter choices, vowels or consonants. After the player chooses his set of letters (maximum of nine letters), all contestants have to come up with a word from the conjointed letters in thirty seconds.<br>- The player with the longer, but valid, word scores one point per letter. If the player used every letter to make a valid word, that player recieves 18 points.<br><br> *Example*:<br>Contestant One chooses five consonants, then three vowels, then another consonant.<br><br>Selection (word) is:<br>G Y H D N O E U R<br><br>Contestant One declares 7, while Contestant Two declares 8.<br>Contestant One reveals the word 'younger', but Contestant Two reveals the word 'hydrogen' and scores 8 points. Contestant One does not score.<br>The word 'greyhound' would have scored 18 points for using all nine letters<br><br>

The second type of round is the Numbers round.%n%nNumbers round:%n%n-The round's current player will choose six numbers of either a small number or a large number. A small number is a number that is from 1 to 10, whereas a large number can be 25, 50, 75, or 100.<br>- Once the player finishes picking his set of six numbers, a randomly generated target, from 100 to 999, will appear on the screen. Contestants have to use the six numbers on the screen to reach the target in the allocated time.<br>- Contestants may use only the four basic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, and do not have to use all six numbers. A number may not be used more times than it appears on the board.<br>- Contestants must show/explain their work at the end of the round. If their work is flawed they score no points.<br>- Only the contestant whose result is closer to the target number scores points: 10 for reaching it exactly, 7 for being 1-5 away, and 5 for being 6-10 away. Both score if they reach the same result, or if their results are the same distance away.<br><br>*Example*:<br>Contestant One requests two large numbers and four small numbers.<br><br>Selection is:<br>75 50 2 3 8 7<br><br>Target is: 812<br><br>Contestant One declares 813, while Contestant Two declares 815.<br>Contestant One is closer and so reveals: 75 + 50 - 8 = 117, and 117 x 7 - (3 x 2) = 813, which scores 7 points for being 1 away. Contestant Two does not score.<br>The equation 50 + 8 = 58, and 7 x 2 x 58 = 812 would have scored 10 points. <br><br>
